
---
layout: post
title: Facebook, What The Fuck?
---

I don't know if it was intentional or not, but breaking ABSOLUTELY BASIC functionality of being able to tab between fields on your forms is the one of the most shortsighted things you could have done.

Tabbing between fields in a form is the easiest way of getting between them, and you fucking broke it.  Congratulations.

Now, instead, you have to type in what you were going to type in, and instead of hitting tab ('Cause if you do hit tab, it obliterates everything you typed in that field) you have to use the mouse which is infinitely slower.  And if your trying to argue that it's not, then you ostensibly aren't familiar with the command line.  Get a real OS.

See, little reasons like this are why I fucking hate sites like Facebook and Myspace.  They try to implement every shiny bell and whistle they can think of, and to hell with the functionality it might break or how it might slow down any computer that wasn't bought in the last year.
How about a site that loaded instantly, was clean from as much Java and Flash cruft as possible, and was actually simple and easy to use?  The fuck man..  Simple clean interfaces are infinitely better than complicated intricate java and flash ridden sluggish excuses for sites that you guys maintain.


And omg, The Fuck is with trying to upload a picture onto Facebook?  
After finally figuring out how to upload photos to a new album, 'cause it seems adding a photo to your Profile Pictures album is taboo for some reason (do msg me if you know how, cause I can't figure it out)...  I got a nasty prompt about "upload.facebook.com is requesting unrestricted access to your computer".  
HAHAHAHA, are you kidding? So I click Fuck No.  Ok, there was no 'Fuck No' button, but you get the idea.  Like I'm giving Facebook unrestricted access to my computer, the one and same company that waited until the godamn Privacy Commissioner of Canada raised privacy concerns to actually act on them.  Same goes for Myspace, I don't trust you any more than Facebook; you may be different companies but your goals are the same "absorb as many new users as possible", and you can bet privacy is pretty far behind profits in their priorities.
